('80s ROCK PLAYING)
And I ran
I ran so far away
I just ran I ran
all night and day
(CHILDREN SCREAMING)
Do you think he saw us?
(SHRIEKS)
What up. dipwads?
Oh. no! Jimmy Nickles!
Give me the money!
Actually. we
didn't bring it today.
Here you go.
Gus!
Give it up. Spencer.
or I'll shove a Jimmy Nickle
sandwich right in your grill.
I think it's a knuckle sandwich.
Okay. Okay.
And from the KangaROOS?
See you tomorrow. butt munches.
It's sloppy joes and tater tots.
You know. Gus. one of these days
we're gonna stand up to Jimmy Nickles.
Yeah. I think I'll stay
home sick that day.
(BELL RINGS)
SHAWN: It's about time.
Sit down. I have troubling news.
You forgot to TiVo America's
Next Top Model. didn't you?
Why is it so hard to
set the Season Pass?
It's not Top Model related.
What is it?
Jimmy Nicholas called.
Jimmy Nickles called us?
From where? Prison?
I don't think so. It
didn't sound like it.
What does prison sound
like? Is there singing?
Shawn! I don't know.
He left a message.
Don't you dare return that call.
I don't need to. He's
coming here in five minutes.
Jimmy Nickles is coming
here? In five minutes?
Yeah.
Okay. okay. We can handle
this. We can handle this.
I'm gonna go print out
a fake foreclosure notice
and stick it on the front door.
And then we both can go outside
and scrape the "Psych"
sign off the front window.
Gus. I think we can afford to relax
a little bit. He said he wants to talk.
And by "talk" I hope he means
talk. not my head in a toilet.
He's gonna try and kill us.
He's not gonna kill us.
Right?
I mean. people change.
We haven't seen him
since the fifth grade.
I don't need to see him. Shawn.
Some people are just born evil.
The kid from The Omen. the Children
of the Corn. Chad Michael Murray.
What is this?
Ooh. eBay.
Auto bid!
600 bucks plus a penny.
The penny is the trick.
I got in a full-on bidding
war with a Montessori school.
What do we need a
locker in the office for?
First of all. I have nowhere
to put my sociology textbook.
And...
(WHISPERING
DRAMATICALLY) Chicka-chickahh!
You always gotta hit it
right on the nose. don't you?
Why couldn't I be Crockett?
'Cause. Gus. you stood in front of
the entire third-grade class and said.
"When I grow up. I wanna
be Philip Michael Thomas."
Well. you said you wanted to be
the mascot for the Milwaukee Brewers.
Dude. he's the biggest
sausage in the world.
Why is Jimmy Nickles
coming here. Shawn?
How big is he now? I don't know.
Why couldn't you
be a real psychic?
(KNOCKING ON DOOR)
JIMMY: Hey. you guys in there?
Oh. God. that's him.
He's not getting my lunch
money. I'll tell you that much.
Great. You can terrify him
with your Wally Joyner mini-bat.
Open the door.
What up. boys?
(WHISPERING) That was
a good call with the mini-bat.
I know. you know That
I'm not telling the truth
I know. you know They
just don't have any proof
Embrace the deception
Learn how to bend
Your worst inhibitions tend
to psych you out in the end
You D-bags gonna
let me in or what?
D-bags?
Yeah. Come on in. Jim.
(GRUNTS)
(LAUGHS)
Way not to be scared. flincher.
I didn't flinch. You know
I have a caffeine tic.
Look at this place.
Video games. lockers.
You two haven't
grown up at all. huh?
And you haven't grown up.
Up.
At all.
Jimmy. as glad as we are to
see you. what are you doing here?
What do you think I'm
doing here. barf beetle?
I came to take your
lunch money. Hand it over!
(LAUGHING)
I'm just messing around.
Actually. I'm in town for work.
I'm sensing...
You became a jockey.
A jockey?
Yeah! One of the best jockeys.
Yeah. I won most of my races.
Until the stupid Santa
Barbara meet started.
Now I'm on some
ridiculous losing streak.
Yeah. the last three favorites
I've ridden have all lost.
And I know it wasn't
something I did.
I've started to lose
all my best mounts.
Mounts? Horses. Guster.
What's wrong with you?
Jimmy. what is it exactly
you'd like for us to do?
Well. one of our friends from our old
school told me about your company.
And even though it
sounds kind of gay.
I thought I could hire you to
come down to the track and maybe
psychically figure out
what's wrong with the horses.
Okay. first of all.
you ride on the back of
mounts while carrying a whip.
That's much gayer
than what we do.
Either way. we're busy right now.
so I don't think we'll be able to...
We'll take the
case. I thought so.
All right. Meet me
at the track at 2:00.
And. as far as
anyone else knows.
you guys are just some
really good old friends.
Got it. dill holes?
(CHUCKLES) Got it.
You can count on us dill holes.
Goodbye. Jim.
Are you crazy?
I wouldn't say crazy.
Maybe an eccentric
who looks good in jeans.
Come on. Gus. You're not actually
still afraid of Jimmy Nickles. are you?
We're not helping that little
monster. Shawn. Period.
Okay. so Jimmy's still a jerk.
We can see that. But the
truth is. I feel like I owe him.
For what?
If anything. he owes
us for 470 lunches.
You know. I added that up once.
And with inflation.
that's like $1.800.
Look. do you remember when Jimmy got
kicked out of school in the fifth grade?
For killing a teacher?
For hitting Miss Lepky with a
spitball. She fell and got hurt.
Same difference. She could've
very well have been killed.
It was me who
ratted him out. Gus.
You did that?
Why didn't you ever tell me?
You don't know all my secrets.
I'm a man of untold mysteries.
If he found out. he'd come
back and gnaw off one of my toes.
Ratting out Jimmy
Nickles? That's suicidal.
I thought I saw him do it.
and I told Principal Tropp because he
said he wasn't going to let the class go
until somebody gave him a name.
And what? You just
had to get home?
Dude. CHiPs was gonna come on in. like.
20 minutes. What was I supposed to do?
It was the one with
the freeway crash.
Where the car used the empty car-carrier
trailer as a ramp and flipped in midair.
That happens in
every episode. Shawn.
I was under a lot of pressure.
A. I always knew
you were a kiss-ass.
And B. who cares? So
Jimmy got kicked out.
It was the best day of my life.
I could finally wear
underwear to school again.
I don't know. Gus.
I always sort of felt
like I got the wrong guy.
I'll never forget the
look on Jimmy's face
when they hauled him
out of class that day.
I didn't do it! I
promise! I didn't do it!
Look. after Jimmy got
kicked out of school.
there were all these stories
about what happened to him.
He ran away from home.
He got thrown in juvenile hall.
Moved to a small town in Kansas
where they outlawed singing and dancing.
That last one is Footloose.
That's a coincidence.
The point is. Jimmy's
life changed that day.
and I feel like I gotta
make it up to him.
Who knows. Gus? I might
have stunted the kid's growth.
I don't know. Shawn.
We're talking about the same dude who
made Aaron Rencher eat his own retainer.
All right. how about this?
We take the case. right?
We prove. for all the
Aaron Renchers of the world.
we are no longer
afraid of Jimmy Nickles.
All right. fine.
But if we take this case. we're
going to overcharge him by $1.800.
Done.
(SHAWN NEIGHING)
He doesn't like the oats. Or the alfalfa
pellets. They're too chewy for pellets.
Pellets should be crunchy. They
should have a natural crunch to them.
(SHAWN NEIGHING)
(HORSE NEIGHING)
Also. the donkey in stable
11 is a pathological liar.
This is idiotic.
Look. it takes a while for the
connection to take hold. Jimmy.
Runny D and I are just
feeling each other out here.
Whatever.
I gotta go lose five pounds
before the next race.
You got half an hour to
figure out what's going on.
What'd you think. Runny D?
I'll tell you what
he's thinking.
He's thinking. "I hate Jimmy.
"He pulled my shorts down in front
of Jenny Scarlatos in the cafeteria."
(MIMICKING HORSE)
You channeling the horse
or a little boy with a tight fade
who used to wear his
OPs without a draw string?
The horse. Shawn. I didn't have
a tight fade in the third grade.
(WHISTLING)
Hey! What's up?
How are you?
That's interesting.
SHAWN: This place is weird
and borderline depressing.
I mean. who are these people?
Who actually comes here?
Well. well. well. This.
I never thought I'd see.
Wow. Dad.
Tell me you're wearing that shirt because
someone has to spot you from space.
Very funny. Shawn. This happens
to be one of my lucky track shirts.
I like it.
I'd like it. too. if I had to
walk home in the dark.
Henry. this your kid?
Hey. kid. Phil "The
Thrill" Shershow.
Shawn. This is Burton
"Oil Can" Guster.
Good to meet you.
Hey. Henry tell you for 20 years
I've been handicapping horses?
That seems so very cruel.
He must've told you I
hit the Pick Six in '87?
Hey. Phil. it's pretty safe to
assume I haven't told him anything.
Five minutes to post.
Gotta make a bet.
Let me tell you. I like the
two-three-four trifecta box.
I think your shirt and his shirt
should get together and go bowling.
Ha-ha.
You have all kinds of
interesting pals I don't know about.
All right. Shawn. look.
Don't start. Phil is not a pal.
He's a bad gambler who
doesn't know when to quit.
But he also happens to
be on a hot streak right now.
which is why I
let him talk to me.
Not that I need it.
I have won eight of 11
races today all by myself.
(WHISTLES)
All right. Shawn. what're
you doing out here anyway?
I tried to drag you
out here for years.
I'm only here today 'cause
we're working on a case.
Well. you know. I think the
reason you never came out here
is because to be a good
handicapper you gotta put in the time.
You gotta do the research. You gotta study
the horses. You gotta study the jockeys.
Something that takes patience
and follow through. which you lack.
Yes. that and a shirt
from Mr. Furley's closet.
(BELL RINGS)
BARRY: And the race is on!
BabyFaced Assassin
takes the early lead.
strides into the first turn head.
So. what's the case?
You ever heard of
a Jimmy Nickles?
You mean Jimmy
Nicholas? Yeah. Solid jockey.
Bad bet. He's
been losing lately.
That's why he hired us.
He thinks there may be something
psychically wrong with the horses.
Yeah. The horses are losing.
that's what's wrong with them.
Yeah. we didn't find anything.
Of course you didn't. There's
a million reasons a horse loses.
None of them have to do
with crystals and moonbeams.
BARRY: Youthful
Spirit is gaining.
And it's Youthful Spirit!
Youthful Spirit!
What I do is much more
than that. It's intuition.
Son. you've got no case.
Oh. well. thanks. We'll
just go home. then.
WOMAN: Juan Carlos!
MAN 1: Help him!
BARRY: Medical
assistance to the track.
We need medical assistance to the
track immediately. MAN 2: Jockey down!
MAN 3: Juan Carlos! Carlos!
So. a jockey who was alive at the
beginning of the race is dead by the end.
Not to sound insensitive.
but I say we do have a case.
That sounds insensitive.
Yeah. I know.
And you guys just
happened to be at the track?
Jules. it's free churro day.
Do they have a
cause of death yet?
Probable heart attack.
O'Hara. I need you to interview
the rest of those jockeys.
(GROANING)
What is that?
Sorry. It's just little
people make me...
Well. let's just say I had a bad
experience with a Christmas elf.
What? He didn't give
you the right present?
No. We dated.
And then he dumped me for a
dancer from The Ice Storm on Ice.
She is an enigma wrapped
in a little blonde riddle.
Shawn. I don't think Juan
Carlos died of a heart attack.
I only got to see
him for a second.
but I'm pretty sure he
had bloodshot eyes.
and his body was totally stiff.
That's a reaction to a
tranquilizer or even a poison.
Something affected
his nervous system.
Thank you. Dr. Pratt.
Let's see if we can get
another look at that body. Yeah.
Hey. you two! Don't go anywhere!
I want to talk to you when I'm done.
Gus has a cramp.
I have a cramp?
We have to pee.
Fine. Just be back
in five minutes.
We gotta pee? That's the
best you can come up with?
Just hurry up.
Really?
How short was this
guy? Give it one more.
We have boots.
We've confirmed that a heart attack was
the cause of Juan Carlos Espinoza's death.
Wait. Everyone. stop.
Let's acknowledge that the
chief is wearing leopard print.
And continue.
I'm getting something.
(STUTTERING)
A rose with a thorn!
No. a rocket.
Rikki Rocket. C.C. DeVille.
David Lee Roth. Wrong band.
Poison!
Yes. Poison.
Juan Carlos was poisoned.
He's right.
Chief. I am so sick of Lassiter
treating us like second-class citizens.
What? You're right.
Espinoza had a cocktail
of drugs in his system.
Opiates. barbiturates. cocaine. three
different kinds of weight-loss drugs.
Cialis and horse tranquilizers.
Horse tranquilizers?
Apparently. the guy
took everything in sight.
He was four-foot-nine. and
three feet of that were drugs.
And obviously his
heart couldn't handle it.
A very thorough job. Detectives.
I'm getting something else.
Juan Carlos was
having an affair!
With a married woman.
Shawn. how do you know this?
Same way that I know that as a child.
Lassy wanted nothing more than a pony.
Oh. come on. who didn't?
Anyone who wasn't
an 8-year-old girl?
(EXCLAIMS)
I see a tall blonde woman.
Brigitte Nielsen? No.
She has 23 diamonds
in her wedding ring.
And she bandies about
the track this way and that.
Shouldn't we at least find
this woman and talk to her?
Do you know anything
about this. Detectives?
Oh. Well. maybe you should find
out before we put this case to bed.
Lassy. your childhood
must have been pure hell.
The good news. I'm
available for hugs.
(INHALES)
Jules. how about it?
Buddy. it's been a while.
Please.
(PANTING)
You're here early.
Yeah. Couldn't sleep. you know?
Came in early. did a little
work on the case. went for a run.
Oh. and I did this.
Nice. I did some work as well.
Turns out the horse tranquilizer Juan
Carlos had in his body was ketamine.
which doesn't make any sense. 'cause
ketamine causes a state of anesthesia.
Well. that's good. Gus. but I was
talking about the spitball incident.
The spitball incident?
Shawn. you need
to leave that alone.
If you haven't figured it
out by now. you never will.
I can't leave it alone. I won't.
I've gone over it in my head a
thousand times. Just hear me out.
What are you doing here?
This is my head. dude. I
can do whatever I want.
What'd we miss?
What's going on here?
Is that what my hair
looks like in the future?
It sure is.
But I thought I'd be bald by 20.
This changes everything.
Yeah. it does. Think big.
(EXCLAIMS)
(LAUGHING)
It was Jimmy!
Whoa. whoa. whoa.
He's sipping through the
straw. not spitting it out.
It couldn't have been him.
There was a second
spitter! Second spitter.
That's so cool.
Let it go. Shawn. Your
second spitter theory is crazy.
Oh. yeah? What about
your Teen Wolf theory?
Hey. that's just a fact.
If any of us were in high school
and some dude became a wolf.
we wouldn't be cool with him just
because he could dunk a basketball.
I certainly wouldn't be selling "I
heart Wolf" T-shirts. I can tell you that.
Save it for your podcast.
Hey. you brought it up.
I'm gonna go talk to Jimmy
Nickles. You look for TBW.
TBW? Tall Blonde Woman.
I abbreviated. Gus. All the
kids are doing it these days.
Oh.
Let's just hope we
don't run into my...
YD? YD?
Your Dad. And it's too late.
Oh. my God. the
shirt has a brother!
Very funny. Shawn.
If you're looking
for your boy Jimmy.
they just announced he was
taken off all the races for the day.
Seriously? I wonder why.
Isn't that Barry Saunder? The
announcer guy. He's like a local legend.
Yeah. yeah. yeah
The Voice. right? Yeah.
Hey. Dad. do you know him?
Can you introduce us or what?
(STAMMERING) I met him once at a
policeman's ball. but it was years ago.
Hey. Mr. Saunder!
Hi. Look who's here! Your
old pal. Hank Spencer!
Do I know you?
No. but we know you.
What is it you always say?
"And the race is on."
"And the race is on!"
Hey. can you do
it for us one time?
And the race is on.
That's it right there.
Why don't you
boys have a button.
I'm sorry. Mr. Saunder.
I'm Henry Spencer.
This is my son. Shawn.
and his friend Gus.
They finally just started
coming to the races.
Oh. Too bad.
Track's probably closing
down after this meet.
Twenty-five years
I've been doing this.
Why's it closing down?
Well. no one comes anymore.
Is it because of his shirt?
Sorry. Dad. this is
like a genocide of color.
Somewhere a rainbow is weeping.
Mr. Saunder. do you know why Jimmy Nickles
was pulled off all of his races today?
We're his buddies. We
came down to see him.
No.
It's a shame. really.
Jimmy was just getting
back to a full schedule.
Juan Carlos had taken most of
his good mounts before he died.
Really? We didn't know that.
Oh. they quarreled
about it all the time.
Did they?
Shawn. look. TBW.
Way to stay on the
abbreviation train. Gus.
You mean the AT?
Are you talking about
Janine? That's Jimmy's wife.
Whoa. whoa. whoa. whoa.
TBW is Jimmy's wife?
Yes.
Looks like Juan Carlos was
taking all of Jimmy's mounts.
I didn't kill Juan Carlos!
I didn't do it. I swear!
JIMMY: Come on! JANINE: Jimmy!
JIMMY: You gotta
believe me! Back off!
JANINE: Let me talk to him.
please! Come on. I didn't do it.
GUS: Okay. so let
me get this straight.
You took on this case
because you felt bad
about Jimmy getting kicked out of
school for something he didn't do.
And now you just convinced
the police to re-open a case
that led to Jimmy being
arrested for murder.
Did I ask for nutshelling?
SHAWN: I think he looks
like a tangelo in that outfit.
Or maybe a clementine
with seeds full of hate.
I think he looks like
an evil little Creamsicle.
(LAUGHS) You mean Dreamsicle.
No. Shawn. Creamsicle.
They're exclusively orange.
Okay. Lassiter says you can
have five minutes with Jimmy.
Sweet.
And good job. by the way.
We never would have re-opened the
case and arrested him if it wasn't for you.
You didn't tell
Jimmy that. did you?
No.
(SIGHS)
I didn't kill Juan Carlos.
We know.
Someone must have tipped
them off. But I swear I didn't do it.
Say. Jimmy. isn't that exactly
like you and the spitball incident?
Guys!
Look. I think what Gus is trying
to say is. we'd really like to help.
We would. But the
evidence... What?
Juan Carlos took all
your mounts. Yeah.
You fought with
him over it. Yeah.
They found ketamine in
your locker. That wasn't mine.
And your wife was having
an affair with Juan Carlos.
What?
All right. Pervis. Put me down.
Don't push me.
I'm getting the feeling he
didn't know about the affair.
You think?
I'm sorry. I just... I can't
believe she would do that.
Especially after I told her I wouldn't
sleep with any more Russian models.
I think we may have
gotten off point. Jimmy.
Let's go back to the beginning.
Obviously the races you lost are
somehow connected to Juan Carlos's murder.
So is there anything
else you can tell us
or that you remember
about those races?
No. The horses
were all running great.
but right around
the clubhouse turn.
they all faded down the stretch.
All of them faded
down the stretch?
You know what? Yeah.
Good.
That's a good place to begin.
All right. that's enough.
Shawn. Let's go.
You've been staring
at that thing for an hour.
Let me take off my
shoes and try it lying down.
No. Shawn. You don't have
anything. It's a dead end. Face it.
We have to tell
Jimmy he's screwed.
Fine. You tell Jimmy.
Me? I never wanted to take
this case in the first place.
I'll race you for it.
What? No.
That's right.
And I know why. Why?
Because I beat you in the 100-yard
dash in the Junior High Olympics.
Please. First of all. you
know I had shin splints.
a torn meniscus
and a plantar's wart.
Gus. you copied those terms from
the glossary of our health textbook.
You have no idea what they mean.
Ask my doctor.
I had a ruptured patella. too.
but I wasn't gonna say anything.
Besides...
Go! Oh. no! No. you didn't!
(SHAWN EXCLAIMING)
(CAMERA CLICKS)
(BOTH PANTING)
You almost had me.
What?
I had you by at least a foot.
I'm gonna give this to you.
I thought so.
Not because you won.
Because you need a victory in
your life more than I do right now.
What?
Oh. no. We're going again.
I got a better idea.
Seven flights of stairs just to
get another view of the track?
Gus. this is the perfect
spot for us to see...
You'll find...
See where the magic
happens. I told you he'd be here.
Can I help you fellas?
Uh. yeah...
And the race is on.
(LAUGHS)
I really don't think you
should be up here right now.
I'm trying to finish my taped
announcements for the day. so...
Ooh. can I do one? I've always
wanted to be an announcer.
For the owner of a
red IROC-Z in lot 3.
Kindly return your
comb to the back pocket
of your acid-wash Z Cavariccis
and turn off your headlights.
What did you think of that. huh?
Have a button.
Hey. I've seen
one of these before.
Yes. It's a shaman's staff.
Yeah. I saw a special on the History
Channel about the Choctaw Indians.
Oh. yes. The Cha-Ka Indians.
Longstanding rivals of
the Sleestak cowboys.
It's pronounced Cho-ko.
Gave us the chocodile.
amongst other things.
I don't think so.
I've been collecting these
artifacts for a number of years.
I'm actually one-sixteenth
Indian myself.
But not Cherokee.
Hey. Gus is one-sixteenth robot.
And not the evil.
take-over-the-world from I. Robot kind.
Oh. sorry.
Hey! You're the guy that
tried to save Juan Carlos.
Yeah. You were the
only one who tried to help.
Way to go. You
should feel proud.
Yeah.
Uh. he died.
Yes. he did do that.
Well. gentlemen.
Ryan and I have to go over some publicity
photos. so if you'd be kind enough...
And the race is on!
Cha-Ka? Really?
Yeah. I'd be
embarrassed if I were you.
I'm not embarrassed at all. Gus.
A Land of the Lost reference is virtually
unheard of in everyday conversation.
Can we go and see Jimmy now?
Not yet.
Barry has tapes of
the races in there.
which means there's a copy
of the one Juan Carlos died in.
I don't know why I didn't think of
this before. We need to see that tape.
There's no way Barry's
gonna let us back in there.
Don't the police
have a copy of it?
They do. but Lassiter's convinced
the case is closed. so he won't help.
Which means I'm gonna have to
do something I know I will regret.
What. ride your dirt bike off
of David King's roof again?
No.
Ask my dad for a favor.
So I was hoping that in your
very meticulous detail mode.
it occurred to you to...
I can't do it.
He wants to know if you
tape all the horse races.
Of course I do. Awesome.
Can we watch the one
when Juan Carlos died?
You may. On one condition.
The deal is you go with me to
the Derby on Sunday in that shirt.
What did I say about
regret. Gus? What did I say?
I think you pull it off. Shawn.
Fine.
All right. here's the race.
Juan Carlos is on
the number 8 horse.
I remember this 'cause Phil
convinced me to go with the long shot.
The one time I go with
the guy and the horse loses.
I don't get it. What are we
missing? What aren't we seeing?
Maybe nothing. Maybe
Jimmy did poison Juan Carlos.
I know he didn't
poison Juan Carlos.
Just like I know
there's a second spitter.
Shawn. once again. you're focusing too
much attention on one aspect of the case.
Close your eyes.
No. I'm not jumping through
anymore of your hoops today.
You need to broaden
your vision. Shawn.
You need to look at
the outskirts of the case.
What does that even
mean? "Broaden my vision?
"Look at the outskirts of a..."
You know what. I am out of here.
No. no. no. Not today.
You sound like Oprah.
I don't even know why I bother coming
here. It's a complete waste of time!
(DOOR OPENING)
A little girl outside just started
crying when she saw this shirt.
Oh. good. good. You're here.
You texted me seven times.
Said it was an emergency.
Yes. a color emergency.
But I think I figured it out.
The walls were sandbar white to suppress
all creative thought and hide the asbestos.
The walls of what?
Miss Lepky's classroom.
Why is my name
on the detention list?
You got caught eating a
Kit Kat out of the trashcan.
The point is. when
I left my dad's...
You mean stormed
out like a little girl?
I did not.
I did. I'll give you that.
I realized my dad
was actually right.
I needed to broaden my vision.
And that's when I remembered. We
all switched seats in class that week.
Right. I had to sit behind Janie
Dorn and her creepy neck hair.
And Jimmy moved over two rows.
Meaning that the second
spitter was on the other side.
Gus. get him.
Shawn. what does this
have to do with horse racing?
I haven't gotten that far yet.
Let me know when
you figure it out.
Let go. Jimmy.
(CELL PHONE RINGING)
Hello? SHAWN:
Dude. I figured it out.
Was that really necessary?
No. but it was dope.
BARRY: BabyFaced Assassin
strides into the first turn at the head
with None Other right on its
tail. BabyFaced Assassin...
Wait for it.
With None Other trade the top spot
as they race around the second turn.
Right there!
The clubhouse turn. Juan
Carlos gets hit by something.
This was just like the
spitball incident with Jimmy.
I was so focused on the stretch
that I never looked anywhere else.
You know. I didn't
broaden my vision. Dad.
Shawn. I'd love nothing
more than to tell you I'm right.
but I have no idea
what I'm right about.
The question is why would
somebody kill someone like that?
Guys! Juan Carlos's
death was an accident.
Yeah! Whatever hit him
was meant for a horse.
This isn't about murder.
It's about fixing races.
Are the tapes ready? Check.
Fake psychic
ability? Full of it.
Yes. you are.
Mr. Spencer. what is going on?
First you help us get... Oh.
Get Jimmy Nicholas. Now
you claim he's innocent?
I'm sorry. Chief. Psychic solar
flares have temporarily blinded me.
My sense of smell has
compensated for my lack of sight.
Lilacs in a meadow.
Is that Camay?
Oh. this is ridiculous.
We've got big boy
police work to do.
Wait. My eyes are
starting to adjust.
Where are we?
We're in the video room!
I'm blind. Gus. Not deaf.
Mr. Spencer. we don't have
time for this. If you wanted to...
Those tapes! What
are on those tapes?
They're the tapes
from the track.
We reviewed them. but
we didn't find anything.
Six-twenty.
Six-twenty-eight. Seven-two.
Doritos. Big Gulp. Slurpee.
7-Eleven?
These are all the
dates on the tapes.
Gus. let's play these tapes.
Stop.
SHAWN: Stop.
Stop!
These are Jimmy's races. This
one is when Juan Carlos died.
That must be why
they're in my head.
All of these horses faded down the
stretch. as if affected by something.
And look. Here.
Juan Carlos is clearly hit by
something at the clubhouse turn.
He felt the effects immediately
because he's a tiny human person.
With the horses. it takes
longer for them to feel the effects.
And your point is?
Whatever hit Juan Carlos
was intended for his horse.
What I'm saying is that
this was an accident.
Mr. Spencer. that's a very interesting
theory. but it's all circumstantial.
We're gonna need
some hard evidence.
Yeah. but thanks
for the AV class.
Youthful Spirit fades down the
stretch. No. wait. he's gaining.
It's Youthful Spirit!
Youthful Spirit pulls it out!
Youthful Spirit fades down the
stretch. No. wait. he's gaining.
It's Youthful
Spirit. pulls it out!
The announcer!
It's the announcer!
He sounds surprised.
nay. shocked.
when Youthful Spirit
doesn't fade down the stretch.
Listen.
Youthful Spirit fades down the
stretch. No. wait. he's gaining.
It's Youthful Spirit.
Youthful Spirit pulls it out!
He was expecting something to happen to Juan
Carlos's horse. That means he's a part of it.
Chief. every psychic
nerve in my body tells me
that something really big is going
to happen at the Derby tomorrow
and that we all
need to be there.
All right. It's too late
to cancel the races.
but I can approve a police
presence at the track.
(INDISTINCT CHATTERING)
I've never been in the jockey club before.
Shawn. Thanks for getting me in here.
It's a good thing we
wore our lucky shirts. huh?
Yeah. I'm just worried
someone's gonna
stare directly at the
pattern and have a seizure.
(BUGLE BLOWING)
Shawn. we've had people
watching Barry for the last six races
and they haven't seen
anything out of the ordinary.
Admit it. You
guys don't have it.
Don't worry. we have it.
I don't know if we have it.
We just gotta figure
out how it all connects.
So what does this Indian stuff I
got off the Internet connect to?
That's what we in the fake
psychic community call a hunch.
BARRY: Ladies and gentlemen.
the horses have
reached the starting gate
for the 84th running of
the Santa Barbara Derby.
WOMAN: Yes! Yes!
(BELL RINGS)
And the race is on!
Uh-oh! Two horses bump
as they come out of the gate!
It's the 3 horse. Scare The
Prize. and the 4. Biased Opinion.
Kate's Conscience takes the early
lead as the horses reach the first turn.
Authority Figure makes a strong
move on the inside of Owner's Caprice
down the backstretch. Authority
Figure and Kate's Conscience
battle their way
past the fall turn.
Authority Figure
begins to take control.
Phil is not a pal. He's a bad gambler
who doesn't know when to quit.
But he also happens
to be on a hot streak.
Henry tell you I like the
two-three-four trifecta box? Huh?
Track's probably closing
down after this meet.
Twenty-five years
I've been doing this.
BARRY: Authority
Figure is almost there.
Dude. I got it. Get
everyone down to the track.
Authority Figure wins with ease!
Guys. I really would like
to cash in my tickets now.
Well. how did she feel
coming around the backstretch?
Everybody hold your horses!
(HORSE NEIGHS)
I meant metaphorically.
but I like the love.
I sensed a plan.
Hatched from the desperation
of watching the track
they all loved so
much shuttered forever.
Isn't that right. Barry?
Excuse me? You
are so not excused.
You see. the track is
closing down this year.
and Barry finally figured
out a way to get paid.
But it was the equine
who told me he had help.
Two people with intimate
knowledge of the races
and access to the entire track.
They figured out how to
control the outcome of the races
by getting rid of the favorites.
And because there were only a
few horses in the race to begin with.
they bet on the rest of the field. and
their odds of winning went way up.
That is insane. We
didn't do anything.
That's not entirely true. Whoa.
whoa. what's happening here?
Gus. little help. buddy.
I don't do horses. Shawn.
Dale! Dale.
Hold that thought.
What was I saying?
Barry was saying
they didn't do anything.
No.
Really?
He used Phil to make all
the bets on the long shots.
And Ryan here. well. he took
care of knocking out the favorites
from his perch in
the camera well.
With what? His camera?
Exactly.
Lassy. do me a favor. Take
that camera off Ryan's neck.
Give it a look.
There's no lens. It's some
kind of firing mechanism.
Which is why he didn't follow
the horses down the track.
I just wanted to make some
money. It was Barry's idea.
Shut up. Ryan! They
can't prove anything.
I'm getting
something. A fraction.
One-fifth. one-tenth.
one-sixteenth.
Barry's one-sixteenth
Choctaw Indian! Oh. no.
And what are the Choctaw Indians
known for? Besides chocodiles.
For using blowguns to kill
animals with darts dipped in poison.
Gus shoots and scores.
with an assist from Wikipedia.
SHAWN: They used
darts dipped in ketamine.
a horse tranquilizer strong
enough to slow down a horse
in the middle of a race.
With darts small enough to be
missed on a thousand-pound horse.
But the problem was.
they accidentally
shot Juan Carlos.
The ketamine. mixed with all
the other drugs in his system
and the adrenaline
from the race killed him.
Ryan. you weren't trying
to save Juan Carlos's life.
You were looking
for the evidence.
And they almost pulled it
off by framing poor Jimmy.
but they couldn't resist one
more big payday at today's race.
It's like my dad always says.
"Real men take bubble baths.
"and a bad gambler
never knows when to quit."
Not bad. kid. Not bad.
Let's go. Get them out of here.
Now. who wants to take a picture
with the winning horse and jockey?
Come on. Dad! Gus.
get over here. Hey.
I finally get my picture
with us in our track shirts.
Memories. Shawn.
That's what it's all about.
Just act natural. Yeah.
Guys. I don't know what to say.
I guess you're not such total
fart knockers after all. Thanks.
That's so sweet.
Gus. isn't there something you
wanted to say to Jimmy here?
Yes. I do.
I've been wanting to
say this for a long time.
You know. back in school...
You know what? About that.
I had some time to
think while I was in jail.
and maybe I didn't treat
you guys so good back then.
Especially you. Guster.
So. I'm sorry. I'm sorry for
giving you wedgies. swirlies.
Jimmy Nickle sandwiches.
stuffing you in the trashcan
and putting boogers
in your clarinet case.
(CHUCKLES) Whoa!
Feels good to get that off
my chest after all these years.
Yeah. I can imagine.
Say. Shawn. Isn't there something
you wanna get off of your chest?
Are you gonna
tell him if I don't?
What do you think?
(SIGHS)
All right. Jimmy.
here's the thing.
I'm the one that ratted you
out over the spitball incident.
Okay? I'm the one that
got you kicked out of school.
And I'm the one that you should
blame for almost ruining your life.
It was me.
Almost ruining my life?
Hey. I went to live
with my dad in Maui.
He let me do anything I wanted.
I ate pizza and cookie
dough for breakfast.
I had a racecar bed.
I lost my virginity at 13.
It was the greatest thing
that ever happened to me.
(HORN BLOWS)
Hi!
Oh. You two are
back together. huh?
Dude. she's a former Miss Oxnard
with no sense of smell
and her dad owns an airport.
Of course we're back
together. Later-o. boys.
Okay. see. that right there
makes total sense in the world.
Yeah. but we can feel
good about solving the case.
Ehh.
Don't you "ehh" me.
Dude. I broke up a highly
intricate race-fixing syndicate
while wearing a shirt
designed by a monkey
coming off a
three-day sugar binge.
Yes. yes. you did. Shawn.
But you still
haven't figured out
who the second spitter
was in Miss Lepky's class.
(CHUCKLES)
Gus? Yes?
You didn't.
Yes. I did.
(EXCLAIMS)
(LAUGHING)
You did that?
And you never told me about it?
You don't know all
my secrets. Shawn.
I guess I. too. am a
man of untold mysteries.
Burton Guster. I'm seeing you
in a completely different light.
You are. dare I say. dastardly.
Hey. I didn't want Miss
Lepky to get hurt or anything.
but when Jimmy got
blamed. my mouth was shut.
Unbelievable.
Face it. Shawn. I am and
always will be that good.
That's why my friends in
school used to call me The G.
That's funny. I thought they
called you Bighead Burton.
Don't you ever say that name.
I know it was you
that started that.
I'm sorry. Gus.
I have a knack for
alliteration. I'm a slave to it.
Besides. how many
words start with B. really?
About a thousand.
How about bold.
black. beautiful?
Who's gonna call
you Black Burton?
You get my point. Shawn.
All right.
I'll tell you what. I'm gonna
buy you an ice cream.
and we're gonna discuss some
new fresh-to-death nicknames.
How about Burton.
the Billowy Bear?
What?
Spitballing. It
was my first shot.
In between the lines
there's a lot of obscurity
I'm not inclined to
resign to maturity
If it's all right then
you're all wrong
But why bounce around
to the same damn song?
You'd rather run
when you can't crawl
I know. you know That
I'm not telling the truth
I know. you know They
just don't have any proof
Embrace the deception
Learn how to bend
Your worst inhibitions tend
to psych you out in the end
I know. you know